Стая белых воронов покружилась вокруг Обсерватории Лофтуса, самого высокого и великолепного здания, украсившего скалу Санктафракса, затем направилась к Каменным Садам. На их далеком краю блестящая серебряная нить, которая являлась Рекой Края, стекала с выступающего утеса и терялась среди движущихся облаков ниже.

Выше по течению, фабрики и литейные мастерские Нижнего Города изрыгали густой едкий дым, который скрывал окружающие трущобы в грязной дымке. Чуть подальше, в утреннем солнечном свете сверкали дворцы и особняки Лиги. А еще выше, выше почерневших дымоходов и ярких плиточных башенок, небеса разрезали элегантные воздушные галеоны с развевающимися парусами; приземистые плоскодонные баржи, загруженные товарами, яликами и лихтерами, а также маленькие шустрые паромы, переполненные пассажирами - и каждое судно держалось в небе за счет летучего камня прямо посередине корпуса.

Лабиринты узких улочек и запущенных переулков бон-доков уже начали заполняться разносчиками и торговцами, высокошляпыми купцами Лиги, с нетерпением продолжавших заниматься в этот новый день своими прибыльными делами. Ни один из них не заметил маленькую фигурку, пробиравшуюся сквозь толпу с опущенной головой и, державшуюся в тени.

Фигура была небольшой; одета она была в длинное грязное пальто (и жесткие рукавицы) с высоким коническим капюшоном, который скрывал лицо за двумя круглыми стеклами. Тяжелые ботинки, идущие вразрез с ее небольшим ростом, топали по булыжникам, поскольку человек куда-то целенаправленно двигался - мимо шумных рыночных прилавков и бревенчатых киосков. Он повернул налево, затем направо, двигаясь по арочным мостам, что были натянуты дугами над зловонными водными путями и шлаковыми дорожками внизу.

At the corner of two rubbish-strewn lanes, where half a dozen shifty-looking goblins were haggling over hammelhorn hides outside a ramshackle warehouse, the hooded individual turned down a broader thoroughfare. Shops lined both sides. Ironmongers with fire-pots and griddle-pans, mire-buckets and rock-spikes that hung from racks outside; fishmongers displaying white oozefish fresh from the river, on ice-filled trays; tailors sewing storm-capes in open-fronted workshops and barbers shaving corpulent goblins over streetside troughs . . .

The figure paused in front of a tavern at the end of the street. A metal sign bolted to the wall above the door creaked as it swung slowly to and fro in the wind. Below a painting of a curious-looking Deepwoods tree with a broad knobbly trunk and stubby branches, three words were written in angular black letters:

The Bloodoak Tavern.

Reaching up with both hands flat, the figure shoved hard at the ironwood door, and entered.

It was hot and humid inside, and very loud. Despite the earliness of the hour, the place was heaving. Flathead and hammerhead goblins in the tilderleather aprons of boom dockers stood in rowdy groups, regaling one another with stories as they drank from the communal woodale troughs. A circle of sky pirates sat at a large table covered in carved names, their elegant oiled hair and plaited whiskers glinting in the low light as they discussed their latest voyages in low whispers. An ancient oakelf, perched on a stool, was gossiping with a brightly feathered shryke matron behind the bar, while to the right of the tavern, where the winesap barrels were set into the wall, a tiny tavern waif sat on a high carved chair. The waif’s huge ears quivered as he read the thoughts of two cloddertrogs quarrelling beside the roaring fire in the opposite corner.

No one paid any heed as the newcomer headed towards the flight of stairs at the back of the tavern. At the foot of the rickety staircase, the figure paused then clumped up the stairs two at a time. At the first landing, a walkway led to the roofbeams that spanned the open ceiling, from which hammocks to rent were slung. At the second landing, a shadowy corridor led to private rooms for hire. The person didn’t pause at either landing, but continued instead up the creaking stairs – one at a time now – to the third floor, where half a dozen rooms were set under the sloping roof.

Grasping the handle of the third door along, the hooded figure tapped lightly with a gauntleted hand, then, without waiting for a reply, strode inside.

The attic room was large and sparsely furnished. A tilder-oil lamp that hung from the rafters filled the air with acrid smoke, and a flickering yellow light that fell on a long hardwood table, a pair of ornately carved armchairs and a pot-bellied stove, glowing with the heat of the lufwood logs that blazed inside.

A gigantic insect-like creature was sitting on the floor beside it, the light passing through his transparent glass-like body. Blood pulsed through his veins. The translucent skeleton encasing the insect’s internal organs rippled as he raised a claw in greeting. With another claw, he reached out and poured water from a steaming pan into a tall teapot with a fluted handle and a long curved spout.

‘I’ve been expecting you,’ the spindlebug trilled.

Without saying a word, the figure removed the gauntlets and took off the tall conical hood. A cascade of long red-tinged hair tumbled down, which a slender hand pushed back to reveal the face of a pale, wide-eyed girl.

‘The mistress has not spoken a word since her return,’ the spindlebug said glumly, as he poured the golden aromatic tea from the pot into two glass beakers. ‘And as for Captain Quint, well, he won’t even mention it – changes the subject whenever I bring it up. Which means,’ he went on, stirring barkhoney into the tea, then looking up, ‘it is up to you, Maugin . . .’

The spindlebug’s great eyes swivelled in their transparent sockets, and a tremble passed through his huge glass body.

‘. . . to tell me what happened on that last fateful voyage.’

Maugin took a deep breath, and then began to tell the tale to Tweezel the spindlebug . . .

Внимание! Этот перевод, возможно, ещё не готов.
Его статус: идёт перевод

Переведено на Нотабеноиде
http://notabenoid.com/book/47344/196356

Переводчики: jjjrrr

